Hi there, welcome to
this video. Today we
will learn what a
digital footprint is.
A digital footprint
is the trail of data
you leave behind when
you go online.
Understanding
footprints helps you
protect your privacy.
The goal of this
video is to explain
how digital
footprints are
created and why they
matter. We will look
at actions that leave
traces, including
actions you choose
and actions that
happen in the
background. Then we
will practice ways to
leave a smaller
footprint.
Imagine walking on a
beach and leaving
footprints in the
sand. Online, you can
also leave footprints
, but you cannot
always see them. Your
digital footprint is
made from your clicks
, taps and choices.
Some footprints are
created on purpose.
For example, posting
a photo, writing a
comment, liking a
video or sharing a
message. These
actions can be seen
by other people
depending on your
settings. Other
footprints are
created quietly in
the background.
Websites and apps can
record what you click
, how long you stay
on a page and what
you search for. This
can happen even if
you never post
anything. Things that
can be tracked
include pages you
visit, buttons you
press, your device
type and sometimes
your location. Apps
may also track which
videos you watch and
what you buy or look
at. This data helps
services learn what
you might do next.
Many companies track
footprints to
personalize content.
They may show adverts
based on what you
watched or searched
for. They may also
suggest games, videos
or products they
think you will like.
Footprints matter
because data can last
a long time. If too
much data is
collected, it can
reveal patterns about
you, your interests,
routines and habits.
The more data that
exists, the more
careful you need to
be. Oversharing makes
footprints bigger.
Sharing your name,
school or location
can make it easier
for strangers to
identify you. Even
photos can reveal
private details in
the background, like
a school sign or a
home address. In
class, you will
become a data
detective and follow
a character's day
online. You will look
for moments where
data is shared or
collected. Then you
will identify what
information others
could learn from that
trail. Here are
simple ways to leave
a smaller footprint.
First, share less
personal information,
especially in games
and sign-up forms. If
something is not
needed, do not give
it. Second, log out
when you are finished
, especially on
shared devices. Third
, use privacy
settings like Only
Friends instead of
Public. Privacy
settings are like
doors and curtains
that control who can
see your data. If you
do not understand a
setting, ask a
trusted adult to help
. Trusted adults can
help you check app
permissions and
privacy options.
Asking for help is
part of being a smart
and safe digital
citizen.
Let's recap. A
digital footprint is
the trail of data you
leave online. Some
footprints are active
and some are passive.
Smaller footprints
usually mean better
privacy and more
control. Great work!
In this video, you
learned what a
digital footprint is
and how it is created
. Next, watch the
video about
protecting your
personal data online
to learn simple
actions you can take.
Thank you for
watching!